[MUSIC PLAYING]
WIM: Hello, everyone.
In this short
video, we are going
to do a quick recap
of type classes
that you've seen in
the previous lectures.
So type classes are a way
to restrict the polymorphism
in types so that
you can actually
overload functions and
operators in specific cases.
This is called
ad-hoc polymorphism.
So let's give a few examples.
So the first example is of
the addition operation.
So the addition
operation should work
on any number types--
should work on real types,
on rational
types, on integers.
So we need some kind of type
variable to express this.
So we could write the
signature as a type variable--
so the operation takes something
of type a-- two elements
and returns something of type a.
But, of course,
that's not good enough
because if a is not a
number, it will not work.
Similarly, if we
have say smaller
than-- the less than operator--
again, you could say,
OK, it takes something
of a certain type
and something of the same
type, and it returns a Boolean.
So it indicates whether the
comparison is true or false.
But again, that's
not good enough
because, in general, types
are not necessarily such
that they can be compared to
one another in a meaningful way.
So in both cases, the
way we solve this problem
is by introducing type classes.
So type classes are
actually constructs
that allow you to put
constraints on the types
without ... you
express that for instance,
in this expression, a must be a
number, and in this expression,
a must be orderable.
And the way we do that is we
extend the syntax a little bit.
So for instance,
we say for addition
given that a belongs to the
Num type class, meaning a
is a number, then we can
write this valid signature.
And the same for this one.
Given that a belongs to
Ord type class-- that's
what this fat arrow means--
then the following signature
is valid.
So these are practical
examples of type classes.
Other ones that you have seen
are the Show and the Read type
classes.
What we are going to
do in the next step
is to look at how you can
define type classes-- how
type classes are defined and
how you can make your own.